# AI-for-Brain-Tumor-Diagnosis
A novel approach to the diagnosis of brain tumors using various methods and AI models

An intracranial tumor, known as brain tumor, is a lethal illness that affects hundreds of thousands of people worldwide. Brain tumors are the rapid growth of abnormal cells in any part of the brain, and there are over 150 variations of these tumors, depending on where they originate. Like all other types of tumors, they can be classified as benign (noncancerous) or malignant (cancerous). Brain tumors can be further classified as primary (tumors arising from brain cells) and metastatic (tumors that spread to the brain from other places in the body). 

Imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans and computed tomography (CT) scans, are noninvasive and harmless methods commonly employed to capture images of the brain and diagnose brain tumors. Medical professionals tend to favor the use of MRI scans due to the detailed and high resolution images they provide. The detection and diagnosis of brain tumors is complex as the symptoms may be vague and similar to those of other medical conditions. 

Due to the similarity in appearance when viewed under a microscope, variations of brain and spinal cord tumors can be misdiagnosed. Even with skilled pathologists analyzing tissue samples, it is estimated that up to 10% of people with a brain or spinal cord tumor initially receive an incorrect diagnosis. An incorrect diagnosis can have an impact on the outcome of treatment, as tumors that appear similar at a cellular level may require vastly different treatment approaches. Accurate diagnosis is crucial in determining the treatment options. The  application of AI technology to analyze large amounts of MRI images can aid in identifying patterns and features that brain tumors share, and can lead to more accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment options.
